>> Josh Long: So
with actuator on the class path, and
now you've got a kind of a sense
of what you're doing with that.
You're making your application
production worthy.
Because remember, in production, nobody
can hear your application scream, okay?
It's very important to give
it the ability to speak.
The actuator is how you do that.
And that's been there since day zero,
right?
We introduced spring
boot 0.4 back in 2013.
We had this.
This was part and
parcel of the spring boot experience,
is production worthiness out of the box,
okay, so now what?
Let's get this thing to production.
And here we have a couple of different
things you might want to do.
Maybe you wanna build a native image,
right?
We talked about that yesterday.
So maven skip tests.
P Native, native colon compile.
Okay, you can do that.
That'll build a Native GraalVM Image
that you can run in your environment.
We have a native binary at this point,
right?
At that point you're going to try and
run it.
You go to the target directory,
you choose.
I'm going to choose E2E because
that's what I named it.
And it's going to fail, right?
So the reason it's going to fail well in
my case is because the port's already
being used by the same
existing process in Java.
But it's going to fail again because
it doesn't have any credentials for
the database.
The reason it doesn't
have those credentials is
because we are using
the Docker compose support,
which automatically prescribes the
username, password and host and port for
the service when we start up
the application in development mode.
But we're not in development mode.
We have a production binary now.
So how do we run this thing in production?
Well, you need to give it configuration.
You could do a couple things here, right?
If I take spring,
I can do this the old-fashioned way,
spring.datasource.password=secret, right?
Spring.username is myuser, right?
And then spring.datasource.url is
jdbc:postgresql://localhost/mydatabase,
okay?
So this is the configuration.
I'm gonna put that in a separate
file here in the target directory.
It's called application properties.
So let me open up this one.
I'm just pasting it there.
In the target directory
I've got a separate
property file called
application.properties, okay?
That's gonna be added to the properties
that are already in the native code, so
let's try that.
So the next problem we're going to run.
If we'd run that though, before we do
that is this is not running publicly.
It's not exposed over the port.
So I need to restart my Docker image,
right?
Go to the target and
then docker compose up, manually,
okay, cd target, and now there you go.
So now the application's up and running.
It connected to the SQL database, right?
And of course, it's running in a tenth
of a second with much less RAM.
So the key bit there was that we are no
longer able to rely on the Docker Compose
support in the production environment.
So you have to manually
specify how to connect, right?
I did that by putting
properties in a property file.
The other thing you could have done,
I could have done this.
I could have gotten rid of that and
just done.
Spring data source username equals secret,
right?
Or sorry, myuser, right, or
better, just to export that,
export the PASSWORD equals this, okay?
And then the
URL=jdbc:postgresql://localhost/mydatab-
ase, yeah?
So now I do this again, same thing.
It draws the config from the environment
variables or from the property files,
external, outside of the binary, right?
So you can deploy the binary from one
environment to another, development Q&A,
sit, whatever.
And it's the same binary, but
you have externalized properties.